\documentclass[11pt]{article}

% NOTE: The "Edit" sections are changed for each assignment

% Edit these commands for each assignment

\newcommand{\assignmentduedate}{April 8}
\newcommand{\assignmentassignedate}{April 1}
\newcommand{\assignmentnumber}{Eight}

\newcommand{\labyear}{2019}
\newcommand{\labday}{Monday}
\newcommand{\labtime}{2:30 pm}

\newcommand{\assigneddate}{Assigned: \labday, \assignmentassignedate, \labyear{} at \labtime{}}
\newcommand{\duedate}{Due: \labday, \assignmentduedate, \labyear{} at \labtime{}}

% Edit these commands to give the name to the main program

\newcommand{\mainprogram}{\lstinline{index.html}}
\newcommand{\mainprogramsource}{\lstinline{src/www/index.html}}

\newcommand{\secondprogram}{\lstinline{site.css}}
\newcommand{\secondprogramsource}{\lstinline{src/www/css/site.css}}

% Edit this commands to describe key deliverables

\newcommand{\reflection}{\lstinline{writing/reflection.md}}
\newcommand{\screenshot}{\lstinline{images/responsive_submission.png}}

% Commands to describe key development tasks

% --> Running gatorgrader.sh
\newcommand{\gatorgraderstart}{\command{gradle grade}}
\newcommand{\gatorgradercheck}{\command{gradle grade}}

% Commands to describe key git tasks

% NOTE: Could be improved, problems due to nesting

\newcommand{\gitcommitfile}[1]{\command{git commit #1}}
\newcommand{\gitaddfile}[1]{\command{git add #1}}

\newcommand{\gitadd}{\command{git add}}
\newcommand{\gitcommit}{\command{git commit}}
\newcommand{\gitpush}{\command{git push}}
\newcommand{\gitpull}{\command{git pull}}

\newcommand{\gitcommitmainprogram}{\command{git commit src/www/index.html -m "Your
descriptive commit message"}}

% Use this when displaying a new command

\newcommand{\command}[1]{``\lstinline{#1}''}
\newcommand{\program}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\url}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\channel}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\option}[1]{``{#1}''}
\newcommand{\step}[1]{``{#1}''}

\usepackage{pifont}
\newcommand{\checkmark}{\ding{51}}
\newcommand{\naughtmark}{\ding{55}}

\usepackage{listings}
\lstset{
  basicstyle=\small\ttfamily,
  columns=flexible,
  breaklines=true
}

\usepackage{fancyhdr}

\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{fancyhdr}

\pagestyle{fancy}

\fancyhf{}
\rhead{Computer Science 302}
\lhead{Laboratory Assignment \assignmentnumber{}}
\rfoot{Page \thepage}
\lfoot{\duedate}

\usepackage{titlesec}
\titlespacing\section{0pt}{6pt plus 4pt minus 2pt}{4pt plus 2pt minus 2pt}

\newcommand{\labtitle}[1]
{
  \begin{center}
    \begin{center}
      \bf
      CMPSC 302\\Web Development\\
      Spring 2019\\
      \medskip
    \end{center}
    \bf
    #1
  \end{center}
}

\begin{document}

\thispagestyle{empty}

\labtitle{Laboratory \assignmentnumber{} \\ \assigneddate{} \\ \duedate{}}

\section*{Objectives}

As an investigation of the fundamentals of responsive web design and a review of
your previous work with the HTML and CSS languages, you will implement and test
a mobile-ready web site leveraging the Bootstrap framework, a Bootswatch theme,
and source code like that which is given in Listing 7.4. Specifically, you will
learn how to use a content delivery network (CDN) to download a recent version
of Bootstrap 4.0. Then, you will also use a CDN to download a theme from the
Bootswatch site. You will then use lined or grid paper to design a web sign in
an application area of your choosing. Next, you will program a responsively
designed web site that incorporates at least five major elements from the
Bootstrap framework (e.g., buttons, tables, forms, or a navigation bar). Along
with using tools for interactively testing and debugging your site's
responsiveness, you will continue to practice running a web server and using an
editor to modify HTML source code.

\section*{Suggestions for Success}

\begin{itemize}
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}

\item {\bf Use the laboratory computers}. The computers in this laboratory feature specialized software for completing
  this course's laboratory and practical assignments. If it is necessary for you to work on a different machine, be sure
  to regularly transfer your work to a laboratory machine so that you can check its correctness. If you cannot use a
  laboratory computer and you need help with the configuration of your own laptop, then please carefully explain its
  setup to a teaching assistant or the course instructor when you are asking questions.

\item {\bf Follow each step carefully}. Slowly read each sentence in the assignment sheet, making sure that you
  precisely follow each instruction. Take notes about each step that you attempt, recording your questions and ideas and
  the challenges that you faced. If you are stuck, then please tell a teaching assistant or instructor what assignment
  step you recently completed.

\item {\bf Regularly ask and answer questions}. Please log into Slack at the start of a laboratory or practical session
  and then join the appropriate channel. If you have a question about one of the steps in an assignment, then you can
  post it to the designated channel. Or, you can ask a student sitting next to you or talk with a teaching assistant or
  the course instructor.

\item {\bf Store your files in GitHub}. Starting with this laboratory assignment, you will be responsible for storing
  all of your files (e.g., HTML and CSS code and Markdown-based writing) in a Git repository using GitHub Classroom.
  Please verify that you have saved your source code in your Git repository by using \command{git status} to ensure that
  everything is updated. You can see if your assignment submission meets the established correctness requirements by
  using the provided checking tools on your local computer and in checking the commits in GitHub.

\item {\bf Keep all of your files}. Don't delete your programs, output files, and written reports after you submit them
  through GitHub; you will need them again when you study for the quizzes and examinations and work on the other
  laboratory, practical, and final project assignments.

\item {\bf Back up your files regularly}. All of your files are regularly backed-up to the servers in the Department of
  Computer Science and, if you commit your files regularly, stored on GitHub. However, you may want to use a flash
  drive, Google Drive, or your favorite backup method to keep an extra copy of your files on reserve. In the event of
  any type of system failure, you are responsible for ensuring that you have access to a recent backup copy of all your
  files.

\item {\bf Explore teamwork and technologies}. While certain aspects of the laboratory assignments will be challenging
  for you, each part is designed to give you the opportunity to learn both fundamental concepts in the field of computer
  science and explore advanced technologies that are commonly employed at a wide variety of companies. To explore and
  develop new ideas, you should regularly communicate with your team and/or the teaching assistants and tutors.

\item {\bf Hone your technical writing skills}. Computer science assignments require to you write technical
  documentation and descriptions of your experiences when completing each task. Take extra care to ensure that your
  writing is interesting and both grammatically and technically correct, remembering that computer scientists must
  effectively communicate and collaborate with their team members and the tutors, teaching assistants, and course
  instructor.

  % \item {\bf Review the Honor Code on the syllabus}. While you may discuss your
  % assignments with others, copying source code or writing is a violation of
  % Allegheny College's Honor Code.

\end{itemize}

\section*{Reading Assignment}

If you have not done so already, please read all of the relevant ``GitHub
Guides'', available at \url{https://guides.github.com/}, that explain how to use
many of the features that GitHub provides. In particular, make sure that you
have read guides such as ``Mastering Markdown'' and ``Documenting Your Projects
on GitHub''; each of them will help you to understand how to use GitHub. To do
well on this assignment, you should also review Chapters 1 and 6 in the course
textbook, further studying the content on web layout in Sections 7.1 through 7.8
and Listing 7.4. Although you are not required to create an example in the
textbook, students can develop ideas for their project by studying the examples
in Figure 7.42 on pages 316 and 317 and Figure 7.48 of Section 7.9.3. Please see
the instructor or a teaching assistant if you have questions about these reading
assignments.

\section*{Accessing the Laboratory Assignment on GitHub}

To access the laboratory assignment, you should go into the
\channel{\#announcements} channel in our Slack team and find the announcement
that provides a link for it. Copy this link and paste it into your web browser.
Now, you should accept the laboratory assignment and see that GitHub Classroom
created a new GitHub repository for you to access the assignment's starting
materials and to store the completed version of your assignment. Specifically,
to access your new GitHub repository for this assignment, please click the green
``Accept'' button and then click the link that is prefaced with the label ``Your
assignment has been created here''. If you accepted the assignment and correctly
followed these steps, you should have created a repository with a name like
``Allegheny-Computer-Science-302-Spring-2019/computer-science-302-spring-2019-lab-8-gkapfham''.
Unless you provide the course instructor with documentation of the extenuating
circumstances that you are facing, not accepting the assignment means that you
automatically receive a failing grade for it.

Before you move to the next step of this assignment, please make sure that you
read all of the content on the web site for your new GitHub repository, paying
close attention to the technical details about the commands that you will type
and the content that must be evident in your web site. Now you are ready to
download the starting materials to your laboratory computer. Click the ``Clone
or download'' button and, after ensuring that you have selected ``Clone with
SSH'', please copy this command to your clipboard. To enter into your course
directory you should now type \command{cd cs302S2019}. Now, by typing
\command{git clone} in your terminal and then pasting in the string that you
copied from the GitHub site you will download all of the code for this
assignment. For instance, if the course instructor ran the \command{git clone}
command in the terminal, it would look like:

\begin{lstlisting}
  git clone git@github.com:Allegheny-Computer-Science-302-S2019/computer-science-302-spring-2019-lab-8-gkapfham.git
\end{lstlisting}

After this command finishes, you can use \command{cd} to change into the new
directory. If you want to \step{go back} one directory from your current
location, then you can type the command \command{cd ..}. Please continue to use
the \command{cd} and \command{ls} commands to explore the files that you
automatically downloaded from GitHub. What files and directories do (or, don't)
you see? What do you think is their purpose? Please note that this laboratory
assignment only includes minimal HTML and no CSS files. This is due to the fact
that a key learning objective for this project is to ensure that you can use a
CSS framework to successfully create your own mobile-ready web site with HTML.

\section*{Creating and Testing a Responsively Designed Web Site}

At the start this laboratory assignment, please review the source code in the
\mainprogramsource{} file, reading its many comments. Next, you should start the
web site and view this page in your browser. Remember, you can run your web
server by typing the command \command{serve src/www 4250}. Now, you can start
your web browser and go to the site \url{http://localhost:4250/}. Please check
to see if the provided web site looks correct. Before moving onto the next
steps, you should also use, for instance, Chrome Developer Tools, to see how
this web site ``responds'' to different viewport widths. Additionally, make sure
that you read all of the documentation for Bootstrap that is available at
\program{https://getbootstrap.com/}. You should also read the documentation for
the themes site, called Bootswatch, by visiting
\program{https://bootswatch.com/}. Any questions so far?

After using grid or lined paper to design your web site and thinking carefully
about its content, you are ready to pick one of the Bootswatch themes. If you
know the name of your chosen theme, you can go to the BootstrapCDN, available at
\program{https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/}, to access the URL that provides a way
to download a ``minified'' CSS file for your theme. If you use this URL
correctly, then you should notice that, for instance, the colors in your site
change accordingly. Finally, you are ready to start adding the HTML source code
that your site will need to responsively display its content. You can access a
template for this code by finding an element that you need on the Bootswatch
site, clicking it, and then clicking the ``code icon'' to reveal the needed
code. If you position (or modify) it appropriately, you should see that this
themed and responsive element is available on your site! Talk with the
instructor if you cannot add in a new responsive element.

After completing the assignment, reflect on the entire process. What step did
you find to be the most challenging? You should write your reflections in a
file, called \reflection{}, that uses Markdown. Now, verbally share your
experiences with another class member and the instructor and at least one the
teaching assistants! Finally, please take the time to answer the other questions
in the \reflection{} file. For instance, ensure that you understand and can
explain how to use Bootstrap and Bootswatch to enable the display of the
mobile-ready content.

\section*{Checking the Correctness of Your Web Site and Writing}

The Markdown file that contains your reflection must adhere to the standards
described in the Markdown Syntax Guide
\url{https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/}. Finally, your
\reflection{} file should adhere to the Markdown standards established by the
\step{Markdown linting} tool available at
\url{https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint/} and the writing standards
set by the \step{prose linting} tool from \url{http://proselint.com/}. Instead
of requiring you to manually check that your deliverables adhere to these
industry-accepted standards, the GatorGrader tool that you will use in this
laboratory assignment makes it easy for you to automatically check if your
submission meets the standards for correctness. For instance, GatorGrader will
check to ensure that certain files and directories exist in your repository.
Since this assignment asks you to independently create your source code,
GatorGrader does not check for specific code.

To get started with the use of GatorGrader, type the command \gatorgraderstart{}
in your terminal window. If you have mistakes in your assignment, then you will
need to review GatorGrader's output, find the mistake, and try to fix it. Once
your web page is displaying correctly, fulfilling at least some of the
assignment's requirements, you should transfer your files to GitHub using the
\gitcommit{} and \gitpush{} commands. For example, if you want to signal that
the \mainprogramsource{} file has been changed and is ready for transfer to
GitHub you would first type \gitcommitmainprogram{} in your terminal, followed
by typing \gitpush{} to perform the transfer.
%
If you notice that transferring your files to GitHub did not work correctly,
then please read the terminal messages and try to determine why.
%
Please see a teaching assistant or the course instructor if you have questions
about any of these steps!

After the course instructor enables \step{continuous integration} with a system
called Travis CI, when you use the \gitpush{} command to transfer your source
code to your GitHub repository, Travis CI will initialize a \step{build} of your
assignment, checking to see if it meets all of the requirements. If both your
source code and writing meet all of the established requirements, then you will
see a green \checkmark{} in the listing of commits in GitHub after awhile. If
your submission does not meet the requirements, a red \naughtmark{} will appear
instead. The instructor will reduce a student's grade for this assignment if the
red \naughtmark{} appears on the last commit in GitHub immediately before the
assignment's due date. Yet, if the green \checkmark{} appears on the last commit
in your GitHub repository, then you satisfied all of the main checks, thereby
allowing the course instructor to evaluate other aspects of your source code and
writing, as further described in the \step{Evaluation} section of this
assignment sheet. Unless you provide the instructor with documentation of the
extenuating circumstances that you are facing, no late work will be considered
towards your grade for this laboratory assignment.

\section*{Summary of the Required Deliverables}

\noindent Students do not need to submit printed source code or technical
writing for any assignment in this course. Instead, this assignment invites you
to submit, using GitHub, the following deliverables.

\vspace*{-.1in}

\begin{enumerate}

  \setlength{\itemsep}{0in}

\item Stored in \reflection{}, a one-paragraph answer to all of the stated
  questions. Additionally, for every challenge that you encountered, please
  explain your solution for it.

\item Stored in \screenshot{}, an image with the screenshot of the final version
  of your site. You can use either Ubuntu's or Firefox's ``printing'' feature to
  make this image.

\item A properly formatted and correct version of \mainprogramsource{} and that
  meets all of the established requirements and contains the correct HTML. Note
  that if you do not modify the CSS files from Bootstrap or Bootswatch, you may
  not need to submit any CSS source code.

\end{enumerate}

\vspace*{-.15in}

\section*{Evaluation of Your Laboratory Assignment}

Using a report that the instructor shares with you through the commit log in
GitHub, you will privately received a grade on this assignment and feedback on
your submitted deliverables. Your grade for the assignment will be a function of
the whether or not it was submitted in a timely fashion and if your program
received a green \checkmark{} indicating that it met all of the requirements.
Other factors will also influence your final grade on the assignment. In
addition to studying the efficiency and effectiveness of your source code, the
instructor will also evaluate the accuracy of both your technical writing and
the contents of your source code. If your submission receives a red
\naughtmark{}, the instructor will reduce your grade for the assignment while
still considering the regularity with which you committed to your GitHub
repository and the overall quality of your partially completed work. Please see
the instructor if you have questions about the evaluation of this laboratory
assignment.

\end{document}
