\documentclass[11pt]{article}

% NOTE: The "Edit" sections are changed for each assignment

% Edit these commands for each assignment

\newcommand{\assignmentduedate}{May 4}
\newcommand{\assignmentassignedate}{April 19}
\newcommand{\assignmentnumber}{Ten}

\newcommand{\labyear}{2018}
\newcommand{\labday}{Thursday}
\newcommand{\labdueday}{Friday}
\newcommand{\labtime}{2:30 pm}
\newcommand{\labduetime}{11:59 pm}

\newcommand{\assigneddate}{Assigned: \labday, \assignmentassignedate, \labyear{} at \labtime{}}
\newcommand{\duedate}{Due: \labdueday, \assignmentduedate, \labyear{} at \labduetime{}}

% Edit this commands to describe key deliverables

\newcommand{\reflection}{\lstinline{writing/reflection.md}}
\newcommand{\timefile}{\lstinline{writing/time.md}}
\newcommand{\colorfile}{\lstinline{writing/color.md}}
\newcommand{\readme}{\lstinline{README.md}}

% Commands to describe key development tasks

% --> Running gatorgrader.sh
\newcommand{\gatorgraderstart}{\command{./gatorgrader.sh --start}}
\newcommand{\gatorgradercheck}{\command{./gatorgrader.sh --check}}

% --> Compiling and running program with gradle
\newcommand{\gradlebuild}{\command{gradle build}}
\newcommand{\gradlerun}{\command{gradle run}}

% Commands to describe key git tasks

\newcommand{\gitcommitfile}[1]{\command{git commit #1}}
\newcommand{\gitaddfile}[1]{\command{git add #1}}

\newcommand{\gitadd}{\command{git add}}
\newcommand{\gitcommit}{\command{git commit}}
\newcommand{\gitpush}{\command{git push}}
\newcommand{\gitpull}{\command{git pull}}

% Use this when displaying a new command

\newcommand{\command}[1]{``\lstinline{#1}''}
\newcommand{\program}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\url}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\channel}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\option}[1]{``{#1}''}
\newcommand{\step}[1]{``{#1}''}

\usepackage{pifont}
\newcommand{\checkmark}{\ding{51}}
\newcommand{\naughtmark}{\ding{55}}

\usepackage{listings}
\lstset{
  basicstyle=\small\ttfamily,
  columns=flexible,
  breaklines=true
}

\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\usepackage{fancyvrb}

\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{fancyhdr}

\pagestyle{fancy}

\fancyhf{}
\rhead{Computer Science 103}
\lhead{Final Project}
\rfoot{Page \thepage}
\lfoot{\duedate}

\usepackage{titlesec}
\titlespacing\section{0pt}{6pt plus 4pt minus 2pt}{4pt plus 2pt minus 2pt}

\newcommand{\labtitle}[1]
{
  \begin{center}
    \begin{center}
      \bf
      CMPSC 103\\Web Development\\
      Spring 2018\\
      \medskip
    \end{center}
    \bf
    #1
  \end{center}
}

\begin{document}

\thispagestyle{empty}

\labtitle{Final Project \\ \assigneddate{} \\ \duedate{}}

\section*{Introduction}

Throughout the semester, you have explored the fundamentals of web development,
learning how to design and development mobile-ready web sites that contain, for
instance, images and forms and use the Markdown, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
programming languages. This final project invites you to explore, in greater
detail, a real-world application of web development. Specifically, you will
design, implement, test, and evaluate a mobile-ready site that engages with
international and/or intercultural perspectives and technologies. You will learn
more about how to use, implement, test, and evaluate different types of software
for real-world web sites. Since you will complete the final project with a team,
you will also learn more about how GitHub and the Git version control system can
effectively support the collaborative development of a web site. While this
project only requires students to ensure that their web site is privately
available, teams are encouraged to use GitHub Pages to release a public version
of their site. Finally, all teams will invite their non-course colleagues to
view their final web site and then report on and analyze the provided feedback.

Your project should result in a detailed report that explains all of your source
code, in addition to written materials and technical diagrams that highlight the
key contributions of your work. This technical report should include a
description of why the chosen topic is important and discuss the design,
implementation, and testing that you undertook. The written material should be
precise, formal, appropriately formatted, grammatically correct, informative,
and interesting. The source code that you write must be carefully documented and
tested. If you use existing resources (e.g., a Flickr image or a responsive
design framework), then the steps for installation and use should be clearly
documented in your report. Also, the report must explain the steps to run your
own web server and view the web site. Finally, your report must detail the work
completed by each member of your team; individual contributions should also be
reflected in commits to the team's repository. In addition to writing the
aforementioned final report in Markdown, you will also use Markdown to write and
submit a project proposal and a status update at the intermediate deadlines.

\section*{Suggestions for Success}

\begin{itemize}
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}

\item {\bf Use the laboratory computers}. The computers in this laboratory
  feature specialized software for completing this course's laboratory and
  practical assignments. If it is necessary for you to work on a different
  machine, be sure to regularly transfer your work to a laboratory machine so
  that you can check its correctness. If you cannot use a laboratory computer
  and you need help with the configuration of your own laptop, then please
  carefully explain its setup to a teaching assistant or the course instructor
  when you are asking questions.

\item {\bf Store your files in GitHub}. As in the past laboratory assignments,
  you will be responsible for storing all of your files (e.g., HTML source code
  and Markdown-based writing) in a Git repository using GitHub Classroom. Please
  verify that you have saved your source code in your Git repository by using
  \command{git status} to ensure that everything is updated. You can see if your
  assignment submission meets the established correctness requirements by using
  the provided checking tools on your local computer and by checking the commits
  in GitHub.

\item {\bf Back up your files regularly}. All of your files are regularly
  backed-up to the servers in the Department of Computer Science and, if you
  commit your files regularly, stored on GitHub. However, you may want to use a
  flash drive, Google Drive, or your favorite backup method to keep an extra
  copy of your files on reserve. In the event of any type of system failure, you
  are responsible for ensuring that you have access to a recent backup copy of
  all your files.

\item {\bf Explore teamwork and technologies}. While certain aspects of the
  final project will be challenging for you, each part is designed to give you
  the opportunity to learn both fundamental concepts in the field of computer
  science and explore advanced technologies that are commonly employed at a wide
  variety of companies. To explore and develop new ideas, you should regularly
  communicate with your team and/or the teaching assistants and tutors.

\item {\bf Hone your technical writing skills}. Computer science assignments
  require to you write technical documentation and descriptions of your
  experiences when completing each task. Take extra care to ensure that your
  writing is interesting and both grammatically and technically correct,
  remembering that computer scientists must effectively communicate and
  collaborate with their team members and the tutors, teaching assistants, and
  course instructor.

\item {\bf Review all of your past laboratory and practical assignments}. Now
  that you have completed many prior assignments, please review all of your
  prior work to ensure that you understand the concepts needed to explore
  real-world applications of web development.

\item {\bf Review the Honor Code on the syllabus}. While you may discuss your
  assignments with others, copying source code or writing is a violation of
  Allegheny College's Honor Code. Specifically, you should only collaborate on
  this project with the students who are a member of your team. You should not
  share source code or images with students not in your team.

% Students who leverage existing online content should

\end{itemize}

\vspace*{-.15in}

\section*{Reading Assignment}

To ensure that you are best prepared to complete this final project, please
review all of the chapters that we have covered up to and after the release date
of this assignment. As we cover new material during the remainder of the
semester (e.g., JavaScript programming), you are encouraged to review that
content as it will better enable you to complete a high-quality final project.

\section*{Accessing the Final Project Assignment on GitHub}

The students in this class may form their own teams of three members; there
should be no teams with two or four people unless they are approved by the
course instructor. Once you pick your team members, you should designate one
individual as the team leader who will complete certain critical steps that are
given later in this assignment sheet. To access the laboratory assignment, you
should first go into the \channel{\#announcements} channel in our Slack team and
find the announcement that provides a link for it. Now, your team should look
into the \channel{\#announcements} channel on Slack and claim the next available
number for your team; share your team number in this channel.

Next, the team leader (i.e., the person you chose to complete this step) will
create their team with the name
\command{Computer-Science-103-Spring-2018-Lab-10-Group-<group label>} and then
accept the laboratory assignment and see that GitHub Classroom created a new
GitHub repository for your team to access the assignment's starting materials
and to store the completed version of your assignment. Note that the team leader
will have to type their group and lab details into a text field. For instance,
if the team leader was in the second group then that person would type ``Group 2
for Lab 10'' into the text field. At this point, each additional member of the
team can accept the assignment through GitHub. Please make sure that each of
your team members joins the correct team---you must be in the team with your
number. Unless you provide the instructor with documentation of the extenuating
circumstances that you are facing, not accepting the assignment means that you
automatically receive a failing grade for it. Please see the instructor with
questions.

Before you move to the next step of this assignment, please make sure that you
read all of the content on the web site for your new GitHub repository, paying
close attention to the technical details about the commands that you will type
and any extra steps that you must take. Now you are ready to download the
starting materials to your laboratory computer. Click the ``Clone or download''
button and, after ensuring that you have selected ``Clone with SSH'', please
copy this command to your clipboard. To enter the correct directory you should
now type \command{cd cs103S2018}. Next, you can type the command \command{ls}
and see that there are some files or directories inside of this directory. By
typing \command{git clone} in your terminal and then pasting in the string that
you copied from the GitHub site you will download all of the code for this
assignment. For the previous example, a student would run a \command{git clone}
command in the terminal in this fashion:

\begin{lstlisting}
  git clone git@github.com:Allegheny-Computer-Science-103-S2018/computer-science-103-spring-2018-lab-10-group-2-for-lab-10.git
\end{lstlisting}

After this command finishes, you can use \command{cd} to change into the new
directory. If you want to \step{go back} one directory from your current
location, then you can type the command \command{cd ..}. You may continue to use
the \command{cd} and \command{ls} commands to explore the files that you
automatically downloaded from GitHub. Please note that the course instructor
expects students to implement and evaluate all of the source code needed to
complete their proposed project. As such, there are no provided HTML, CSS, or
JavaScript source code files for this assignment. With that said, you will need
to edit, by the stated deadline, the three Markdown files in the
\program{writing/} directory. Finally, you will need to submit, for instance,
screenshots of your web site and reports on how your colleagues reacted to it.
Here are some additional tips to assist your team while it designs, implements,
and tests the source code of the web site that you create for the final project:

\begin{itemize}
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0in}
  \item Make sure that your HTML, CSS, and JavaScript source code is organized
    into directories.
  \item Remember that all of your source code must meet well-established programming standards.
  \item Unless you require a customized mobile-ready layout, consider using
    Bootstrap for this task.
  \item If you download and use images from Flickr or Instagram, give
    credit and the license details.
  \item Use the textbook's description of web development projects to
    help you when brainstorming.
  \item Recall that there are no GatorGrader checks for this assignment since each project is different.
  \item In GatorGrader's absence, your team should establish correctness checks for your source code.
  \item Importantly, your team should use ``linting'' tools to better ensure
    source code correctness.
\end{itemize}

\section*{Description of the Topics}

Each team is invited to pick one of the following projects. Please note that a
team selecting the student-designed project must first discuss the idea with the
course instructor, during today's laboratory session, and receive feedback and
then final approval. Finally, please be aware that your team is fully
responsible for ensuring the feasibility of the final project that it proposes.

\begin{enumerate}

  \setlength{\itemsep}{0in}

  \item {\bf International Character Reference}: This topic invites your team to
    investigate the Unicode standard for the consistent encoding and display of
    most of the world's languages. Even though Unicode is documented through
    several sites, such as \url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode}, this
    standard is lengthy and cumbersome to search and understand. If your team
    picks this project, it can learn more about Unicode by reading Section 3.4
    and then develop a site that enables people to, for instance, search for and
    learn about specific characters. This web site should feature a responsive
    layout ensuring that both Unicode character examples and the textual content
    is visible on laptops, desktops, and mobile devices. Whenever possible, the
    web site should enable user interactivity through, for instance, the
    capability to display Unicode symbols in different colors or in boxes with
    different backgrounds.

  \item {\bf International Art Museum}: Develop an extension of the ``art
    store'' project described in Sections 3.7, 4.8, and 7.9. Your web site
    should feature examples of international art and then descriptions of both
    the artists who created the work and the art itself. Your site should
    feature a responsive layout displays both the art and the textual content on
    laptops, desktops, and mobile devices. Whenever possible, the site should
    support user interactivity through, for instance, an art discussion board or
    a background choice for the featured artwork.

  \item {\bf International Travel Site}: Your team should create an extension of
    the ``travel photographs'' project described in, for example, Section 7.9.
    This web site could feature photographs taken during international travel,
    further explaining the cultural context that is documented by the
    photograph. Additionally, the site can furnish tips for successful
    international travel or publish interviews with travellers. Your web site
    should feature a responsive layout ensuring that both the photographs and
    the textual content is visible on laptops, desktops, and mobile devices.
    Whenever possible, the site should enable user interactivity through, for
    instance, a travel discussion board or a zooming display for the photographs.

  \item {\bf International Country Site}: A team selecting this project will
    create an extension of the ``countries database'' site given in the extended
    example of Section 8.10. This site could feature the flag or some other
    iconic image for each country. Additionally, the site can furnish important
    facts about each of the chosen countries. Students who are interested in
    this project can investigate the Gapminder web site, at
    \url{https://www.gapminder.org}, for inspiration. This web site should
    feature a responsive layout ensuring that both the images and the textual
    content is visible on laptops, desktops, and mobile devices. Whenever
    possible, the web site should enable user interactivity through, for
    instance, a visualization of statistics about countries or a feature
    supporting the uploading of images and details about a new country.

  \item {\bf Intercultural Perspectives Survey}: Your team should create a
    significant extension of the ``country survey'' form given in Section 5.4.
    This web site could feature a survey that asks a person to share their views
    on one or more cultural issues. This site could also present some of the
    results from the individuals who have already taken the survey. This web
    site should feature a responsive layout ensuring that both the images and
    the textual content is visible on laptops, desktops, and mobile devices. A
    team that picks this project should follow the advice in Section 5.5 to
    ensure that their forms and tables are accessible to a wide range of people
    (e.g., individuals who face visual or mobility challenges). If possible, the
    site should enable user interactivity through, for instance, a visualization
    of results from the survey.

  \item {\bf Student-Designed Project}: Students will develop an idea for their
    own project that focuses on both international or intercultural topics and
    the field of web development. After receiving the course instructor's
    approval for your idea, you will complete the project and report on it.

\end{enumerate}

\section*{Final Project Requirements}

To ensure that you and your team have mastered the concepts introduced in this
course, your project's source code should adhere to the following requirements.
These requirements may be modified, at the discretion of the course instructor,
only if a team receives prior permission and documents this approval in the
final report and the source code. Without prior approval, all submitted final
projects should contain source code in the Markdown, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
programming languages. While it is acceptable to reuse source code from previous
laboratory and practical assignments and online sources, the origin of all your
derived code must be clearly documented. Critically, the majority of your final
project's source code may not be comprised of work that you found in online
sources or completed as part of a previous course assignment. Additionally, your
web site must feature a mobile-ready design that you created with either bespoke
CSS source code or through the use of a responsive web design framework like
Bootstrap. Finally, your site must feature images that you appropriately stored
inside of your GitHub repository.

\section*{Summary of the Required Deliverables}

\noindent Students do not need to submit printed source code or technical
writing for any assignment in this course. Instead, this assignment invites you
to submit, using GitHub, the following deliverables.

\vspace*{-0.05in}

\begin{enumerate}

  \setlength{\itemsep}{0in}

\item Completed, fully commented, and properly formatted versions of all the
  source code files. Please ensure that you source code adheres to all of the
  requirements mentioned in this assignment sheet (e.g., the use of all the
  required programming languages for web development).

\item A one-page written proposal, saved in the file
  \program{writing/proposal.md}, with an informative title, an abstract, a
  description of the main idea, an initial listing of the tasks that you must
  complete, and a plan that you and your team will follow to fully complete the
  work.

\item A one-paragraph status update, saved in the file
  \program{writing/update.md}, that explains what your team has already
  implemented and the steps that you will take to finish your web site.

\item A detailed final project report, saved in the file
  \program{writing/report.md}, that documents, in a project-specific fashion,
  how you designed, implemented, tested, and evaluated your web site.

\item Stored in \reflection{}, a four paragraph reflection on the commands that
  you typed in \command{gvim} or \command{atom} and the terminal window. This
  Markdown-based document should explain the input, output, and behavior of each
  command or language construct and the challenges that you confronted when
  using it. For every challenge that you encountered, please explain your
  solution for it. This document should also explain how your team collaborated
  to finish the assignment, with each team member writing their own paragraph
  inside of this file.

\item A commit log in your GitHub repository that clearly shows that the team
  members effectively collaborated. That is, the commit log should show that
  commits were evenly made by all team members; a meaningful photograph of each
  member should appear in the commit log.

\item Stored in the \program{screenshots/} directory, a collection of five
  screenshots that showcase different aspects of your mobile-ready web site.
  Your team should produce screenshots that highlight how your site behaves at
  different viewport widths (e.g., desktop, laptop, tablet, and phone).

\item Stored in the \program{responses/} directory, a Markdown file called
  \program{feedback.md} that includes at least five direct quotations from
  non-course Allegheny College students who interact with your mobile-ready
  site. As previously described in the assignment sheet, you should run your web
  site on a laboratory computer and then ask your colleagues to share some
  feedback about it.

\end{enumerate}

\noindent
You must complete all of the aforementioned deliverables by the following due dates:

\begin{enumerate}

  \setlength{\itemsep}{0in}

  \item {\bf Project Assigned and Project Proposal:} Thursday, April 19, 2018

    After meeting with the course instructor and team members, pick a topic for
    your final project. Remember, if your team selects the student-designed
    project, you must first have your project approved by the course instructor.
    Next, make sure that you create a GitHub repository that can be accessed by
    the instructor. Finally, write and submit a one-page proposal for your
    project. While you can use the project descriptions on the previous pages as
    a starting point, your proposal should have an informative title, an
    abstract, a description of the main idea, an initial listing of the tasks
    that you must complete, and a plan for completing the work.

  \item {\bf Status Update and Project Demonstration}: Thursday, April 26, 2018

    As you continue working on your project, please write and submit a one
    paragraph status update through your Git repository. In addition, you should
    give a demonstration, during the laboratory session, highlighting the most
    important source code that you have finished.

  \item {\bf Final Project Due Date}: Friday, May 4, 2018 by 11:59 pm

    You should submit the final version of your project through your team's
    GitHub repository. This submission should include all of the relevant source
    code and output, the written reports, and the additional materials that will
    demonstrate the success of your project. While you are encouraged to turn in
    the final project before the examination session starts on its date,
    students must submit the completed assignment no later than 11:59 pm on the
    due date.

\end{enumerate}

\vspace*{-.1in}

\section*{Evaluation of Your Final Project Submission}

Using a report that the instructor shares with you through the commit log in
GitHub, you will privately received a grade on this assignment and feedback on
your submitted deliverables. Your grade for the assignment will be a function of
the whether or not it was submitted in a timely fashion and if your repository
contains correct versions of all of the required Markdown and source code files.
Other factors will also influence your final grade on the assignment. Along with
checking for the existence of the required images and the screenshots of your
web site, the instructor will also evaluate the accuracy of both your technical
writing and the comments in your source code. Please see the instructor if you
have questions about the evaluation of this final project assignment.

All team members will receive the same baseline grade for the final project. If
there are extenuating circumstances in which one or more of the team members do
not effectively collaborate to complete this assignment, then the course
instructor will adjust the grade of specific team members so that it is higher
or lower than the baseline grade, as is fair and necessary. Please see the
instructor if you do not understand how he assigns grades for collaborative
assignments. Finally, in adherence to the Honor Code, students should only
complete this assignment with their team members. Deliverables (e.g., HTML code
or Markdown-based technical writing) that are nearly identical to the work of
outsiders of your team will be taken as evidence of violating the \mbox{Honor
Code}. In summary, please see the course instructor with any questions about
these policies for the final project.

As previously noted, the instructor will also evaluate the effectiveness with
which your team completed this assignment. The instructor will assess your
team's effectiveness as {\bf excellent} when:

\vspace*{-.5em}

\begin{enumerate}
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}

\item All team members contribute correct, useful source code and/or
  Markdown documentation that supports the creation of a working and meaningful
  mobile-ready web site.

\item All team members participate in the laboratory discussions, sharing status
  updates and ideas.

\item All team members attend the classroom discussions about your current
  status on the project.

\item All team members regularly communicate with others in a respectful and
  informative manner.

\item All team members work with others and the instructor to resolve any
  differences that arise.

\end{enumerate}

\vspace*{-.5em}

The instructor will assess team effectiveness as {\bf good} when the team
members fulfill the aforementioned standards most of the time. The team's
effectiveness will be assessed as {\bf average} when some, but not the majority
of the time, the team members make meaningful contributions to the project,
according to these set standards. The course instructor will assess team
effectiveness as {\bf below average} when, as a whole, the team does not
function according to the above standards.

\end{document}
